Minor restructuring; we plan to combine format and protocols (#6)
ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-architecture: draft-birkholz-scitt-architecture.md

  - can we keep track of the provenance of software artifacts?
  - can we share the cost of reviewing software across the industry?

> While there is no need to limit SBOM to firmware, third-party firmware is a concrete example and may improve readability.

## Confidential Computing

> Confidential Computing leverages trusted execution environments (TEEs)

Reviewer: In a nutshell:

CC Service: Attester
Client: Verifier & Relying Party
Transparency Service: Endorser & Reference Value Provider (or a trusted relay for them as the artifact issuer actually take on these roles, I think)

to operate services in isolation, with hardware-based integrity and
confidentiality protection.  When clients connects to such a service,

> the service presents attestation evidence that typically includes a
> platform certificate for its TEE and a measurement of the software it
> runs in this TEE. The client verifies the evidence before using the
> service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the service presents attestation evidence that typically includes measurement of the
software it runs in this TEE. and a corresponding endorsement co-located with the
TEE and provisioned by the Endorser. The client verifies the evidence with the help
of a Verifier before using the service as the Relying Party.
```

> But how can clients verify it is a valid measurement for the service?

Reviewer: RATS defines the solution basically as "via a Verifier role". Evidence always comes with a proof of its Authenticity as it is signed by an Attesting Environment of the Attester (usually a RoT, that can be a layered Attesting Environment, sometimes called a Bootstrapped RoT).

And how can operators update the service, e.g., to mitigate a new
security vulnerability, without notifying all clients that they should
use a new measurement?

A supply chain that maintains a public record of the successive
software releases for the service, recording both their measurements

> and their provenance (source code, build reports, audit reports,...)

Reviewer: The conceptual messages provided here (in this scope artifacts or assets) are:
* "recording of their measurements", which I assume means nominal measurements, that you can compare actual live measurements coming from the confidential services about itself - that would be Reference Values in Reference Integrity Manifests.
* "recording of their provenance", which is bit ambiguously phrase but probably is an SBOM and Endorsements.

Provided here is the Verifier role that can be taken on by the client, of course. The entity that is a client takes on a lot of a responsibility here, if it also takes on the role of a Relying Party. The Verifier role conducts the "appraisal of Evidence", consuming Reference Values, and Endorsements (coming from supply chain entities that are usually manufacturers, oem, and certifying organizations). and Evidence coming from the Confidential Computing Service that takes on the role of an Attester.
